Israel has struck a displacement camp
where civilians were sheltering,
killing at least 45 people in Rafah
in southern Gaza.
That is according
to the Gaza Health Ministry.
We must warn you
that you are about to see in
this segment is going
to be very difficult to watch
out.
For.
All these are
the scenes overnight of the camp in Rafah
set ablaze Israeli military claim
to CNN Hamas
officials were killed in the strike
with what they called precise munitions.
Local officials
say most of the casualties
were women and children.
Now you can see the location of the camp
on this map,
and it's a reminder
that over a million
people have been sheltering in Rafah
as the war
forced people further south,
though many have fled yet again
as Israel
ramps up the operations in that area.
The strike came just two days
after the International Court of Justice
ordered Israel
to halt its offensive in Rafah.
On Sunday, Hamas fired
rockets at Tel Aviv,
the first attack of its kind into Israel
since January.
CNN's Not Bashir
Following developments for us,
he's standing by in London,
but a distressing video out of Rafah.
A lot of that video
we actually cannot share
because it is so disturbing.
Help us understand the
impacts of this strike.
Well, a colony,
as you
mentioned, many of those
who were sheltering in this
Talal Sultan neighborhood
in Rafah have been displaced.
Time and time again,
they have been pushed south
into the southern city of Rafah
by the Israeli military, told
that this would be a safe zone.
And in fact, over the last month,
we have been hearing warnings
from the IDF
telling civilians now
to evacuate parts of Rafah
to Gaza's coastal area for their safety
and protection,
ahead of a looming
full scale ground operation.
This was not one of those areas.
This was not an area
that received an evacuation order.
This was supposed to be a safe zone
for civilians.
Clearly, that is not the case.
And seen this incident overnight.
Airstrikes targeting an area
that is densely
populated by civilians filled with tents,
makeshift tents sheltering civilians.
And we have seen
graphic, disturbing, horrifying video
emerging from the scene last night.
Tents completely engulfed in flames,
charred bodies
being pulled from the burning
shelters,
including the bodies of children.
Now, as we have heard
from the
health authorities in Gaza,
the majority of those casualties
were women and children.
More than 240 people have
so far said to have been badly wounded
and injured.
We've heard from health authorities
saying they simply do not have
the capacity
in the remaining hospitals in the area
to care for that number of casualties.
So this is an overall
disastrous situation
for many of those civilians
in the southern city of Rafah.
Huge amount of concern.
Of course,
we've been hearing widespread
condemnation and warnings
against further military action in Rafah.
Clearly,
those warnings have not been heeded. So,
yeah, and
you know
what is, of course, you know,
getting a lot of attention as well.
Is this
just a few days after the ICJ ruling
for Israel to halt operations in Rafah?
We have seen some reaction, firstly,
to whether Israel
is going to be adhering to that ruling
and of course,
the criticism of the way that Israel
is conducting this operation in Rafah.
What more do we know?
Yeah, absolutely.
We've been hearing fierce criticism,
of course, from European leaders.
We heard earlier this morning
from the EU's foreign affairs chief,
Josep Borrell,
saying that Israel
must adhere to the ICJ ruling that
it must immediately halt
military operations in Rafah.
We've heard from the German
foreign minister
saying earlier today
that the international Court
of Justice order
for Israel
to halt its military operation
in the southern Gaza City is binding
and has to be followed.
And in fact, President Macron.
France has also issued a statement.
He said that he was outraged
by last night's attack on Rafah,
that these operations must stop.
There are no safe areas in there
for Palestinian civilians.
I call for full respect
for international law
and for an immediate ceasefire.
And of course,
there is huge amount of concern
around the potential
for further military action in Rafah.
We've had previously from one of Israel's
closest allies, the Biden administration,
President Biden himself
speaking to CNN, saying
that if Israel were
to fully go into Rafah, than the U.S.
would not be able to support
in the form of arms
and weapons, that
that would not be the case.
It remains to be seen
whether this latest incident is in fact,
a red line for President Biden.
This has certainly drawn
outrage amongst many
in the international community,
particularly, of course,
from the United Nations,
which has repeated,
he warned, against a full operation
in Rafah
and continued airstrikes in Rafah.
This is an area that is densely populated
still with civilians, the vast
majority internally displaced.
And of course, there is simply nowhere
safe left for civilians to turn.
And of course,
there are questions around
how this will impact ongoing
ceasefire negotiations.
That is another point of concern.
We heard today
from Qatar officials
saying that they are worried
that this could hinder
the ongoing discussions
around a potential truce
between Israel and Hamas. Only
that.
Nada.
Bashir, thank you
so much for that update.
Well, the Palestinian Authority
is calling on the United States
to put more pressure
on Israel to stop the violence
and said the US bears responsibility
for these crimes that shames humanity.
We have not heard from the Biden
administration yet
regarding the attack on the refugee camp.
Just a few weeks ago,
the US
president seemed to put forward
a red line
when it came to targeting
civilians in Rafah.
If I go into Rafah,
I'm not supplying the weapons
that have been used historically to deal
with a deal with the cities,
a deal with that problem.
We're going to continue
to make sure
Israel is secure in terms of Iron Dome
and their ability
to respond to attacks
that came out of
the and Middle East recently.
But it's it's just wrong.
We're not going to
we're not going to supply the weapons
and artillery shells used.
Well, we are closely
following the response
from the Americans,
and we will bring it to
you when we get us.